The essence of refuge is confidence, faith, and devotion, closeness feeling toward the Buddha,
Dharma, and Sangha.
That is foundation. Foundation of all the vows and all the practices.
If we don't have that, we linger, we shake, we tumble.
Therefore, rafu is soul and body. Generate that.
So, with this understanding, now we return to home with rafu, Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha are known as another terminology in Vajrayana teaching, and particularly
in Tantra, used as three routes.
Guru, Deva, Dakini. And how that equivalent comes, or how that can compare with Buddha, Dharma, and
Sangha.
Guru is like Buddha, and Yidam is like Dharma, and Dakini, and Dharma as Sangha members.
That is how she teaches. So, even though it's a different terminology, but reality is Buddha,
Dharma, and Sangha.
So, you take rafu into that. And now, here it begins, we go to this new prayer. We go to this sadh
ana, the very essence.
And this teaching, again, as I said yesterday, or today, this teaching is generally inner Tantra
teaching.
This sadhana is connected to inner Tantra, and again, inner Tantra, there's Mahayoga, Anu-Yoga, Aht
i-Yoga teaching.
This is the essence of the three inner Tantras.
Tantra starts with Mahayoga. That is what it is.
So, this prayer, or the prayer of the rafu in bodhicitta, developed in bodhicitta begins with the
syllable "homes".
Home. Home is a very cigarette symbol, cigarette syllabus, or cigarette letters.
Letters, it is symbolizing our own awareness, our own awareness.
And our own awareness is what really is beyond the level of all this rafu, all three duos, all
three rules, is a rising display of the one's own awareness.
The display of the one's own awareness. So, relaxing our mind, instead of the zogchin, we join the
home.
And relaxing that, then we're going to develop this beautiful motivation with full of joy, and dev
otions, confidence, and a relaxing, mongoling with our inner natures.
Here, what I said, the three, the three rules are in bodhicitta, all of the rafus.
The three rules are, and I think already I said, and you know that, but three rules.
Guru, dehra, rakini, or dharmapala are known as three rules.
What means three rules? You say that the root of the blessing is guru.
The root of accomplishment is deities, and the root of the whole performing activity is dakini and
dharmapalas.
So that's what I said. Again, we should not think of the three individuals, and each has that power
or the ability.
Otherwise, there's high light, we call it. Otherwise, guru in bodhicitta is the root, yedam or the
deity in bodhicitta is the root, and dakini in bodhicitta is the root.
This is not completely separated, isolated items.
This all has all. That's the beauty of the true nature of the awareness.
So here, and now, so with this, and three rules, in bodhicitta, all of the three rafus.
That three rules, where that three rules are, and here, and the spontaneously three guides, I check
rafus by recognizing these.
Sorry, the three rules, and then I check rafus also in three guides.
Three guides. That three guides is dharmakaya, sambokaya, and nirmakaya.
So I check that. Three guides, sorry, three rules, and three guides, I check rafus.
Rafus. Now, what is the distinction between three guides and three rules?
Even though, again, it's like here, I mean, it's not just here, it's the teaching method, the three
rules, and the three kayas.
The reality level is all same states.
And again, what is three kaya? Have you said if three kayas are connected with three rules, what is
that three kaya?
Let's say, again, the dharmakaya is guru, or guru is dharmakaya.
Yedam, or the deities are sambokayas, and Rakini is other dharmakayas.
So that way, it's connected, the same thing.
And again, what is dharmakaya?
So where that three kaya and the three rules are, that is here, same.
Sapantenously inherited, sapantenously inherited.
Where is he inherited? That three kaya, three rules are all within the awareness, one's own
awareness.
So that means, one's own awareness is represented by the syllable "homes".
So within the syllable "home", the three kayas are there, and the three rules are the same.
And what that "home" is our own awareness.
Where is our awareness? Is it right? A coordinate teaching? Right? Center of our heart.
How that exists, how is it there, in which man is beyond the conceptions, beyond the component?
It's uncomfortably, it's unconception.
Therefore, the awareness is continuing.
Our awareness, from the beginner's time, is until now the same.
It has all qualities of the enlightenment.
It also, if we use the wrong way, it brings all those variety displays of the satsara delusions,
illusions.
And all the emotions, unhealthy emotions, because we pollute, we must handle it.
And then, of course, it has all those beautifuls, love, compassion, kindness, courage, commitment,
understanding.
Those all beautifuls are also within this awareness.
Where they are in the awareness, beyond the concept, if we look at time, where is my compassion,
where is my God, where is my kindness taught, where is my courage, where is my commitment?
Nothing we can find.
Emerge to the infinite knowledge of our own nature. That's how it is.
Similarly, our own negative emotions. Same thing.
Even if it is bursting so strongly and making disturbance to the other,
but if we look to the room, to souls, and if we try to find as tangible that emotion as to either,
there's nothing.
It's like blowing air, if we use the example. It's nothing, it's there.
That is how it is. But yet, our awareness is continuing. It's embodying when we're here.
The ultimate level is three kaya, three rules. So, there he says, "I take refuge, recognizing that
."
Recognizing that means I've been joyfully, happily, and with great confidence,
and recognizing and abiding in being that state, is the absolute taking refuge.
Refuge taking absoluteness. When you take that way, refuge, there's no subject or object.
All subject and object are merged. It is refuge of the beyond dualities, beyond the gracings.
You relax. That is what is taking refuge. And how long are we going to take that refuge?
Until we fully discover that nature. From where? Where is that? From right now.
And how are we going to maintain? Keep that.
In whatever situation, circumstances arise on the road, on path, or whatever. We are going to
always keep that recognition.
Next, with courage and commitment, preserving that. And radiating that energy through the body of
others.
Love and compassion kindness, and respect and appreciation, following the according exactly where
things are.
Respect and appreciation of the way things are, a building in the related truth, and then be that m
ongol with absolute truth. Relax.
That is what is known as taking refuge.
Taking refuge, again, taking refuge, generally, but this is more like zukis, levels, but a way to
get refuge, is that refuge in the Buddha, in the Dharma, in the Sangha.
And the Buddha is what? There are three kind of individuals. Buddha is totally in life beings, as
you know, free from all obstacles, diseases, and all the headings, emotions, self-important thought
.
That is really one Buddha. And what is that Buddha? Love, kindness, compassion, all living beings.
That is Buddhism.
There is just only one Buddha or how many Buddhas? There are many, many Buddhas. According to
Buddha's teaching, there are countless Buddhas.
Because all have the potential or the potential or the seed of the Buddha, whoever walked for that
seed, everyone can get enlightenment.
The Buddha who is not reserved by some selected groups is equally natural. That we, everyone walked
for that, we can get. We can achieve that.
So therefore, there are so many Buddhas. According to the teaching, there is male Buddhas, female
Buddhas. There are so many Buddhas.
So when we take generally Buddhas teaching, particularly Mahayana, we take it off into all of them,
feel close, connect to all these Buddhas.
They are our great teachers. They are our role models. They are also, once upon a time, as regular
sentient beings, emotional sentient beings, obscured sentient beings.
But they become the Buddha because they walk with heart, with confidence, with their own energy,
with love and compassion, with wisdom, all of which we can both each other, actualizing both each
other.
We walk for that. Read the life story of the Buddha, Shakyamuni, before you become the Buddha.
Those are known as jataka historians. It's beautiful historians.
One after another, how Buddha completely care and maintain. Even there is so much turbulence going
around that his love, his compassion, courage and commitment, caring and concerning for all beings.
That's what it is. As much as you do that, you revere your beautiful colleagues, and that is known
as merit, gaining the merit.
And that means to gain the merit, it's put it by the obstacles. That's how the gracious teacher of
Buddha Shakyamuni once said that he is a part of women's according to the teaching.
This is not just only that, when we read those life story of the great masters. They are once upon
a time, or the big enemy, they look like they are really normal individuals.
Just as regular individuals, as many of us. Like little, with full of emotion, full of sculptacles,
worries, concerns, anxieties, and all those things.
Once they turn the mind, they have courage, they have commitment, they have the lowest loyalty to
the Dharma. They put that in action.
And even in some cases, no matter what happened, even the Rocky monkey falls down, or art tears
away, and glory comes in my places, I am never going to move out of my practice, my achievements.
And even in that kind of statements, the men, that shows their courage, commitment, their
willingness.
They are not just lingering this and that, jumping these grasshoppers. Truly they are. Really, that
's what they mean. They are the winners.
One of them, in the Buddha's teachings, called Jyarbha, in it a bit. They were tourist monks. He is
not done fighting with the emotions of someone, with his soul and that, "I am good, you are bad."
Not that. They defeated the ego-clinging. They defeated the obstacles. They defeated anger, the
jealous edibles.
Their names are named as "voterismals" or "aranas". They defeated. This is what.
And then Dharma is the message, generally, the message of the chief Buddha.
The message of love and kindness compare your thought to all the living beings.
And it shows exactly good quality to everyone, how to improve, how to bring your peace, happiness,
make something beautiful, beautiful to themselves, beautiful to others.
That is really Dharma. Dharma. And there is not just only one Dharma. As we talk, there is nine Y
ana Dharma's.
Or not just only that. There is a variety of Dharma's. They call it a teaching.
So today, I take love for each. Close to all of these Dharma's. Dharma's. And that is a general
again Buddha's teaching.
And the next one is the Sangha members. Sangha is a Sanskrit word in the Tibetan, known as Gendu. G
endu. G-e-d-u-n, Gendu.
Gendu means ghee is virtuous. Dhun means devoted. So, devoted is virtuous.
That is really can be translated. Gendu. And then in the Sanskrit, Sangha.
Sangha, Gendu. So, devoted virtues. What is their virtues?
Virtues is their love, kindness, compassion, loving kindness. That is virtuous.
And courage and commitment, worship. All virtues is six bara matas. All two bodhicata. Viching, bod
hicata, absolute bodhicata.
Devote to that. So, that is really the Sangha members.
And then there is not just only few Sangha members. There is many Sangha members. Sangha members of
the Nayanas. Nayanas.
And we take refuge to all of them. Be closeness to all of them. Sangha members.
And then in that there is some beginning Sangha. Some very advanced Sangha or some middle Sangha.
So, beginning and turning the path, they are Sanghas. So, you reach to the middle of the Bhumis or
the path, they are Sangha too.
And the Sangha or to the end of the Bhumi energy path, they are also Sanghas.
No matter what your realization, achievement, but they are all Sangha because they are devoted to
the virtues.
How they are devoted with courage, commitment and confidence. That's not how they devote.
So, such as highly advanced Sangha members, those are known as then. What? Such as Medhishas, Rajap
anis, our location.
They are known as great body Sanghas and Mahasanghas. They are also Sangha members.
According to the teaching, they are already in like a base, but due to their completion, they
always act as like a great body Sangha.
So, they are Sangha members. And there are Sangha members, what are known as? Those Sangha members
are known as our convenience, our example stories.
So, the Bhok, Jainese or the Avalokiteshara, Vayapani, Manjishri, they are example stories of ours,
the new Sanghas, Sanghas.
They are supporting, helping to each other, inspiring to each other and moving together with
everyone together with the path in Bhok.
And that is known as Sangha members. So, today we feel very close connection to all these Sangha
members.
And so now, this is the journey that the Buddha is teaching, and also Buddha, Dharma, Sangha. And
how long are we going to take a raffle?
Same thing, until we become the Buddha. We take that raffle.
And during that time, what is the situation of Sangha that has to happen?
But Buddha, Dharma, Sangha will be always in our heart centers. Heart centers, and we are going to
move forward.
With full joy, with full confidence. So, that is really about the raffle.
Now, the next one is, then again, is like, both details.